Python 
1.What is init keyword ?
it is a method used as the constructor function for a python object/class. When a new class is instantiated this method
is called automatically running any setup functionality for the new instance.
2.What is self keyword ?
a keyword used to refer to the current instance of an object within the scope of it's usage.
3.What is lambda functon?
an anonymous function which is generally short and concise and for a short lived purpose like a calculation or aggregation operation
4.Difference between lambda and normal function?
a lambda is anonymous and has no definition outside of the location where it is created and used.
5.What are generators? When to use ? share one example
generators iterate through a sequence on the fly instead of storing everything in memory, they use the 
yield keyword instead of return and rather than terminationg the function execution is paused until next() is called
6.Python is compiled or interpreted language ? what does it mean?
python is interpreted meaning each line of code is processed and executed 
one after another rather than a file being process and en executable being generated
7.What is the difference between list and tuples in Python?
a list is mutable a tuple is immutable a list uses []  a tuple uses ()
8.What is the difference between list and set in Python?
both a mutable but a set does not retain an order for it's elements 
and is optimized for testing for membership; they also do not allow duplicates
9.When to use dictionary?
a dictionary is  a key value data structure with the key being the name 
of the element and the value containing the information so you would potentially 
want to use this data structure with data having non-numeric keys/identifiers or with more complex
data structures as the value elements can contain other objects,lists, or even functions
10.What are decorators? When to use ? share one example
a decorator is a feature that lets you modify or extend a function without changing the original 
function by wrapping the original function with additional functionality to be executed before and/or after the original 
function is executed. It is attached to a function with the @ symbol, it's useful if you 
for adding convenience or consistency when extending the functionality of a function. For example I had some uncleaned
data for which in order to be standardized some of the data needed a certain process to be run on it and the rest did not 
by adding a decorator to the ingestion function I was able to apply the cleaning functionality as needed and without 
modifying the existing function maintaining compatibility with both inputs
11.What are Iterators? //(revisit)
innerworkings of python iteration functionality implemented automatically by for loops 
but can also be used to create custom iteration functionality
12.What is slicing?
pythons syntax for selecting elements, spans or sequence patterns from a list or sequence of ordered elements
the format is [start:stop:increment_amount] ( the -1 as a value also will the last value or increment backwards depending on the way it's used)
13.What is mutable and immutable?
mutable allows for data elements to be changed once initialized, immutable does not.
14.Python is single thread or multithread?
python is a general-purpose language and there are ways to use multiple thread but it's default implementation Cpython 
has a "global interpreter lock" which limits python to 1 thread at a time, at least for CPU bound tasks.
15.What is GIL: global interpreter lock limiting python to 1 thread at a time
workaround would be multiple processes with their own python interpreter and memory like in the 'multiprocessing' module
16.What you don’t like about python?
It's not as powerful or structured as C/C++ for low level, work, threading and concurrency
not the best option for mobile app development
17.What is list Comprehension?
a succinct way to write a forloop similar to a lambda function which sort of automatically iterates and operates on an list and returns a new list
18.What are Dunder methods? Give examples
"double underscore" methods are built-in python methods that provide special functionality to classes and objects
and are automatically invoked by the python interpreter in certain situations they can be implemented in classes to 
customize or extend their behavior
19.What does _init_ method do?
20.Difference between array and numpy library.
Numpy is a scientific library optimized for working with data and has highly efficient
list and matrix calculations and processing, also with a library of scientific methods
